
                      OmniHelp Draft Specification
                             March 18, 2002


OmniHelp is a cross-platform, browser-independent help viewer application.

Most of the primary functionality is implemented using JavaScript and
CSS along with XHTML.  Some functions (such as CSH and help embedding) 
may be implemented in Java, C, or C++.  All code is Open Source under 
the LGPL so it may readily be customized.

The initial targets for OmniHelp are Windows (95/NT+), Linux, and 
MacOS, with other UNIX flavors to follow as quickly as possible.


Windows
-------

The default OH window is a tri-pane frameset (possibly emulated in a 
noframes environment) with a control pane at top, a nav pane at left, 
and the rest used as the topic pane:

+ In control pane, usual back/forward, next/prev, show/hide nav buttons,
easily programmable (in .js file) to add others or remove unwanted ones.

+ In nav pane, choice of TOC, IX, Search, and Glossary by default, also
easily programmable to add/remove more.

+ In topic pane, full support of XHTML 1.0 and CSS 1.0, with added CSS 
2.0 as possible; may use existing Open Source engine such as Gecko.


Files
-----

The project files all have the same basename, with varying extensions.
The topic files can have any arbitrary names, normally with .htm or 
.xml as their extensions.  The CSS files use .css as usual, and the
JavaScript files use .js.  Graphics use their usual extensions.

The project may be used just from the starting .htm/.xml (which
includes the frameset code), or in compiled form using a .zip
format (compressed or uncompressed) as packaging.


  File Type    Extension  Description
  ---------    ---------  -----------
  Contents     .ohc       XHTML of TOC with show/hide CSS.
  Index        .ohk       XHTML of IX with JS topic-title popups.
  Search       .ohs       Binary index of terms.
  Glossary     .ohg       XHTML with <a name=""> identifiers.

  Map          .ohm       XML map for external linkage such as CSH.
  Project      .ohp       Settings for compilation in .ini form.

  Compiled     .ohz       Single-file zip package of all files.


Contents Window
---------------

In any window that uses multiple lavels, any item that has subitems 
has a book icon before it, closed when collapsed, open when expanded.  
For the TOC, whenever a link is used from the IX or GL, or from any 
topic, the corresponding entry is selected and anything above it is 
expanded to make the selection visible.  On initial opening, only 
the topmost level is shown by default.

The expansion is done using CSS { display: block/none } for browsers
later than ver 4.  No expansion is possible for NS4.

Initially, the contents will be built as a set of XHTML .htm files,
named C1N0001, C2N0001, C3N0001, C3N0002, etc.  The C1 file contains
only top-level items.  When you click on the plus to expand one, you
really get another file, a C2, which starts with the C1 it came from
(with a clickable minus before it) and contains the heads under it,
with links to C3s.  Same happens at each level, with the higher heads
(like in trails) stacked up at the top with minuses, and the current 
level flush left with plusses, so no indents are needed... allows use
of a narrow window without horizontal scroll (just wrap).


Index Window
------------

For the IX, the topmost level is the user-defined set of alphabetic,
numeric, and symbol heads.  Level expansion and collapsing work as in
the Contents window.  On initial opening, only the topmost level is 
shown by default.

When multiple topics refer to the same IX entry, the bottom level of 
links shows the titles of the referencing topics.  This eliminates the 
need for popups to resolve multiple references (as used in WinHelp).

When the IX entry is double-clicked, the topic pane is positioned
so that the actual location of the index ref in the text is near
the top (or center?) of the window, even though it is not visible
itself in the text.


Search Window
-------------

The Search window looks nearly identical to the IX window, since the
Search shows the indexed search terms as in WinHelp.  In both, the
user can type a word to match in an edit box, and have the list
below sync to the typing at each character, with the first match
always at the top of the list box.  

However, in the Search window the terms are all at the top level.
Where terms appear in multiple topics, a Find Next button becomes
active so that the user can step through all instances (in TOC
order).  Topics can be excluded from Search by the help author.

For Search, the topic pane shows the page with the word(s) all
highlighted, and is positioned so that the first instance of the
word in the selected topic is near the center (or top?).

Possibly the IX and Search functions should be merged, with color 
distinguishing terms not in the index from those that are.  The 
trouble with this is that when a term was in both, the Search 
instances could overwhelm the IX instances...though the IX ones
could be placed first in the sequence.


Glossary Window
---------------

The Glossary window is again similar to the Search window, with
all terms at the top level in an autoscrolling list.  When a term
is double-clicked, the corresponding definition appears in the
topic pane.  All instances of the glossary term in the regular
topics are autolinked to the glossary <a name=""> tags during
compilation.


Context-Sensitive Help
----------------------

Initially, CSH is handled via a window that contains the context
terms, one per line, in XHTML, each linked to their topic file.
This CSH file is generated by the authoring system.  It contains
JS which, when it is loaded, looks at the # value passed to it,
selects the corresponding term, and brings in the page it links
to instead of the CSH page itself (which remains hidden).  A meta
refresh tag handles the case where there is no match.


[End of OmniHelp Draft Specification]
